1.ALS
Part of the definition of ALS is that it’s a progressive disease -- that is, it gets worse over time. So once you have your first diagnosis of ALS, your doctor will likely recommend repeating all the tests in 6 or more months to see whether your disease has changed at all.

Mutations in the gene known as C9orf72 have been found in about a third of all familial cases and a small percentage of sporadic ones. Scientists have also found that this defect on the C9orf72 gene is tied to what’s called “frontotemporal dementia (FTD),” an uncommon form of dementia. Some researchers think that ALS and some forms of FTD are related.

Doctors may test your breathing regularly and provide you with devices to assist your breathing at night.
Saljemo ga kod pulmologa?


2.TENSION HEADACHE
Even if you have a history of headaches, see your doctor if the pattern changes or your headaches suddenly feel different. Occasionally, headaches may indicate a serious medical condition, such as a brain tumor or rupture of a weakened blood vessel (aneurysm).


3.MIGRAINE
Abdominal problems. Certain pain relievers called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others), may cause abdominal pain, bleeding, ulcers and other complications, especially if taken in large doses or for a long period of time. 

While the risk is considered extremely low, taking migraine medications called triptans and antidepressants known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) or serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. These medications naturally raise serotonin levels, and it is possible that combining them could cause levels that are too high.


4.PARKINSON DISEASE
Bladder problems. Parkinson's disease may cause bladder problems, including being unable to control urine or having difficulty urinating.

Lewy bodies: A person with PD may have clumps of protein in their brain known as Lewy bodies. Lewy body dementia is a different condition, but it has links with PD.

Autoimmune factors: Scientists reported in JAMA in 2017 that they had found evidence of a possible genetic link between PD and autoimmune conditions, such as rheumatoid arthritis.

In 2018, researchers investigating health records in Taiwan found that people with autoimmune rheumatic diseases (ARD) had a 1.37-higher chance of also having PD than people without ARD.


5.DEMENTIA
Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of dementia.

Vascular dementia. This second most common type of dementia is caused by damage to the vessels that supply blood to your brain. Blood vessel problems can cause strokes or damage the brain in other ways, such as by damaging the fibers in the white matter of the brain.

Lewy body dementia. Lewy bodies are abnormal balloonlike clumps of protein that have been found in the brains of people with Lewy body dementia, Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. This is one of the more common types of progressive dementia.

Other disorders linked to dementia

    Huntington's disease. Caused by a genetic mutation, this disease causes certain nerve cells in your brain and spinal cord to waste away. Signs and symptoms, including a severe decline in thinking (cognitive) skills, usually appear around age 30 or 40.

    Traumatic brain injury (TBI). This condition is most often caused by repetitive head trauma. People such as boxers, football players or soldiers might experience TBI. Depending on the part of the brain that's injured, this condition can cause dementia signs and symptoms such as depression, explosiveness, memory loss and impaired speech. TBI may also cause parkinsonism. Symptoms might not appear until years after the trauma.

    Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. This rare brain disorder usually occurs in people without known risk factors. This condition might be due to deposits of infectious proteins called prions. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease usually has no known cause but can be inherited. It may also be caused by exposure to diseased brain or nervous system tissue, such as from a cornea transplant. Signs and symptoms of this fatal condition usually appear after age 60.

    Parkinson's disease. Many people with Parkinson's disease eventually develop dementia symptoms (Parkinson's disease dementia).

There's no sure way to prevent dementia, but there are steps you can take that might help. More research is needed, but it might be beneficial to do the following: Manage cardiovascular risk factors. Treat high blood pressure, high cholesterol, diabetes, and high body mass index (BMI). High blood pressure might lead to a higher risk of some types of dementia. More research is needed to determine whether treating high blood pressure may reduce the risk of dementia.


6.MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS


7.ALZHEIMER DISEASE


8.EPILEPSY
Brain conditions. Brain conditions that cause damage to the brain, such as brain tumors or strokes, can cause epilepsy. Stroke is a leading cause of epilepsy in adults older than age 35.

Head trauma. Head trauma as a result of a car accident or other traumatic injury can cause epilepsy.

Developmental disorders. Epilepsy can sometimes be associated with developmental disorders, such as autism and neurofibromatosis.


9.MENINGITIS
Meningitis can also result from noninfectious causes, such as chemical reactions, drug allergies, some types of cancer and inflammatory diseases such as sarcoidosis.

Complications of bacterial meningitis might need extra treatment. Someone with shock or low blood pressure might get more IV fluids and medicines to increase blood pressure. Some kids may need extra oxygen or mechanical ventilation if they have trouble breathing.

Bacterial meningitis complications can be severe and include neurological problems, such as hearing loss, visual impairment, seizures, and learning disabilities. Because impaired hearing is a common complication, those who've had bacterial meningitis should have a hearing test after they recover.

The heart, kidneys, and adrenal glands also might be affected, depending on the cause of the infection. Although some kids develop long-lasting neurological problems, most who get a quick diagnosis and treatment recover fully.